VAULT-19278 Static secret caching docs (#23621)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/agent-and-proxy/proxy/caching/static-secret-caching.mdx

that token from accessing the cached secret.

This permission is provided in the [`default` policy attached by default to all Vault tokens](/vault/docs/concepts/policies#default-policy),
and, unless this has been modified, will be attached by default to all tokens. For completeness, or in case you wish to
apply this permission in a way other than via the `default` policy, the policy snippet required for this functionality
is as follows:

   ```hcl
    path "sys/capabilities-self" {
        capabilities = ["update"]
    }
   ```

The period at which capabilities for each token using Proxy will be checked is configured with the `static_secret_token_capability_refresh_interval`
configuration, described below. The default is to check per token every five minutes. For a setup where the `api_proxy`
has been configured with `use_auto_auth_token` as `true` or `force`, and all requests going through Proxy will be
using this sole token, this will be a single request to Vault per this interval, no matter how many secrets are
being cached.

## Functionality

When enabled, Vault Proxy will cache `GET`s to KVv1 and KVv2 endpoints. When a `GET` is made to a KV secret,

> we will cache the response in Proxy's cache. Once the response is cached, subsequent `GET`

Reviewer: ❗ The end of the sentence is missing here.

Author: Good catch! Thank you! Fixed :)

Vault Proxy uses the [event system](/vault/docs/concepts/events) to keep the cache up to date. It will
pay attention to events that indicate both that the secret is one we have in our cache, and also that

> the secret has been modified (e.g. changed, deleted). Upon receiving such an event, it will update the cache
> to update or evict the cache entry as appropriate.

Reviewer: 🤔  This sounds more natural to me, but then again, I barely speak the language, haha. I am leaving the suggestion in case you prefer it too.
```suggestion
the secret has been modified (e.g. changed, deleted). Upon receiving such an event, it will update or evict the cache entry as appropriate.
```

Author: Thanks! I prefer your wording too. Updating!

---

> layout: docs

Author: That makes sense, thanks! It's intended to be a technical overview, but I included information on e.g. the required auto-auth permissions because enabling event system access is quite novel. We don't have any other subsystem of Vault that requires it today, as far as I know? I'm incorporating your feedback, I appreciate it all! :D

page_title: Vault Proxy Static Secret Caching
description: |-
  Vault Proxy's Static Secret Caching functionality allows you to cache KVv1 and KVv2 secrets for calling clients.
  The secrets will be automatically updated by Proxy, minimizing requests made to Vault, and offering resiliency.
---

# Vault Proxy Static Secret Caching

> Vault Proxy's Static Secret Caching functionality allows you to cache KVv1 and KVv2 secrets for calling clients.

Author: Looking at similar pages, it looks like it shouldn't be! Thanks, updating this

The secrets will be automatically updated by Proxy, minimizing requests made to Vault, and offering resiliency.

## Required permissions

To enable static secret caching, [auto-auth](/vault/docs/agent-and-proxy/autoauth) must also be enabled.
The auto-auth token must also have permissions to subscribe to KV event updates via Vault's [event system](/vault/docs/concepts/events).
Proxy uses the auto-auth token to connect to Vault's event system, and uses events to know when to update its cache
with updated secrets.

> An example policy snippet that would grant access to KVv1 and KVv2 events is given below:

Reviewer 2: I suggest saying "static secrets (KVv1 and KVv2)" just to be clear that those secrets engines are static secrets

Author: Good call! Updating :)

   ```hcl
   path "sys/events/subscribe/kv*" {
       capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   ```

This functionality enables Proxy to receive updates as soon as a secret gets changed, reducing staleness in

> the cache, and means we only check for a secret update upon receiving notification that the secret got updated.

Reviewer 2: > the cache, and means we only check for a secret update upon receiving notification that the secret got updated.

suggest change to
>the cache, meaning Proxy only checks for a secret update upon receiving notification that the secret was updated.

Author: Good catch! Updating :)

configuration, described below. The default is to check per token every five minutes. For a setup where the `api_proxy`
has been configured with `use_auto_auth_token` as `true` or `force`, and all requests going through Proxy will be
using this sole token, this will be a single request to Vault per this interval, no matter how many secrets are
being cached.

## Functionality

When enabled, Vault Proxy will cache `GET`s to KVv1 and KVv2 endpoints. When a `GET` is made to a KV secret,
we will cache the response in Proxy's cache. Once the response is cached, subsequent `GET`s to this secret will
be served from the cache instead of being forwarded to Vault, as long as this client has access to this secret
in Vault.

If a token requests a KV secret, we store in the cache that this token has the capability to access a secret.
Therefore, subsequent requests by the same token will be able to access this secret from the cache. For a second
token to access the same secret, it must first complete a successful `GET` to the secret before its permission

> to access the secret is cached, and its subsequent requests can be served from the cache instead of Vault itself.

Author: This reads a little confusingly to me, since the token is cached as part of the client making the request, i.e. two requests are not required and it might sound like tokens are not part of client requests somehow? I think your version is still better, and I've updated it, but I wonder if we can still make it clearer

Vault Proxy uses the [event system](/vault/docs/concepts/events) to keep the cache up to date. It will
pay attention to events that indicate both that the secret is one we have in our cache, and also that
the secret has been modified (e.g. changed, deleted). Upon receiving such an event, it will update or
evict the cache entry as appropriate.

Vault Proxy will also intermittently check the permissions of tokens that can access cache entries. This interval
defaults to once every five minutes, but is configurable by the `static_secret_token_capability_refresh_interval` configuration.
Every interval, Proxy will perform a call to [`sys/capabilies-self`](/vault/api-docs/system/capabilities-self) on
each token's behalf to validate that it still has previously-demonstrated capabilities to read secrets from the cache.
If there is a difference, and a permission (or the token itself) has been revoked, then the cache will be updated,
and it will no longer be to able access those paths from the cache. Note that the `static_secret_token_capability_refresh_interval`
configuration can be seen as the maximum period after which permission to read a KV secret can be revoked that a

> token will retain access.

Author: This was mostly great, but I updated the end for clarity as it was slightly inaccurate (or, at least, could be read in an inaccurate way).

> As with other requests to Proxy when the cache is enabled, Proxy will return `HIT` or `MISS` in the `X-Cache`
> response header for requests, to tell the client if it has been served from the cache. The `Age` header
> will be added if it is a cache hit, to inform the client how long it has been in seconds since an update
> to the secret. Note that a long age doesn't necessarily mean that the cache is stale, and could just mean
> that it hasn't been updated in a while.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When static secrete caching is enabled, Proxy returns `HIT` or `MISS` in the `X-Cache`
response header for requests so client can tell if the response was served from
the cache or forwarded from Vault. In the event of a hit, Proxy also sets the
`Age` header to indicate, in seconds, how old the cache entry is.

<Tip title="Old does not mean stale">

  The fact that a cache entry is old, does not necessarily mean that the
  information is out of date. Vault Proxy continually monitors KV events for
  updates. A large value for `Age` may simply mean that the secret has not been
  rotated recently.

</Tip>
```

Style correction: write in the active voice, avoid contractions. Suggest making the comment about the Age header more explicitly tied to secret hygiene and calling it out as a tip since it's not directly related to Proxy functionality.

## Configuration

> The top level `cache` block has the following configuration entries relating to static secret caching:

Author: We have it in both places as part of this PR, as it was consistent with our other subsystems of Proxy/Agent. For example, if I search "block has the following configuration entries" I get quite a few hits. I'm not averse to changing that, but I think we should probably do it everywhere, if we think it's the right thing to do
